### 3. Gender assortativity

A network is said to be assortative if nodes tend to be connected to "similiar" nodes, where similarity is based on some property of the node (e.g., age, gender, degree, etc.). In this problem you'll look at gender assortativity in the social networks of several universities as collected in the Facebook100 dataset studied [in this paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437111009186). (A link to this dataset, which is not currently public, will be provided on Piazza.)

Each of these networks contains (undirected) links between people who were connected as friends on Facebook in a 2005 snapshot of the network along with (anonymized) demographic information about each person. Here we will be interested in gender, which is coded as 1 = male, 2 = female, and 0 = unknown.

a) First read in information about the nodes and edges for each school in the dataset. Keep in mind that the networks are undirected and each edge is listed only once in the edgelist files (e.g., edge A-B does not appear as B-A). Store all edges with the gender of nodes and their neighbors in one dataframe.

b) Summarize each node's neighborhood by counting what fraction of its neighbors are identified as male, female, or unknown. Then make a plot that shows the probability that a node is female versus the fraction of female neighbors it has, for each school in the dataset. Do this by binning the nodes in each school according to the fraction of female neighbors it has rounded to the nearest 10 percentage points and computing what fraction of nodes in each bin are labeled as female. This plot should contain one panel for each school, with the x-axis showing the fraction of female neighbors a node has, binned in increments of 10 percentage points, and the y axis showing the percent of nodes in each bin that are actually labeled as female. Size points by the number of nodes in each bin, add a dashed diagonal line to the plots, and set the axis limits from 0 to 100% for both axes. Comment on any interesting patterns or differences between schools.

c) Now use the gender breakdown of a node's neighbors to try to predict the node's gender with a simple majority vote: predict that each node's gender is the most commonly occuring gender among its neighbors, breaking ties randomly. Compare these predictions to each node's actual gender and compute the accuracy of such a classifier for each school across all the nodes in that school's network. Compute standard errors on the accuracy as well.

d) Make a plot which shows the name of each school on the y-axis and the accuracy of the classifier on the x-axis, with a dashed vertical line at accuracy = 0.50 and schools sorted by decreasing classifier accuracy. Include error bars that show standard errors. Comment on the schools for which your classifier has comparatively low / high accuracy.

e) How would you expect the results of parts b) and d) to differ for a network that encodes dating relationships where the majority of individuals are heterosexual instead of the friendship networks you have looked at here? How would you expect accuracies to change if you tried to predict whether a node was a student or faculty member instead of predicting gender?

Place your solution in the problem_3.Rmd file in this directory and submit both the Rmd and a rendered pdf.

*Do not* use igraph or any network packages to complete this problem. Instead create one dataframe for the nodes of each network and one dataframe for the edges of that network, and do all calculations by manipulating these dataframes.